README.md, before:

# Android Gradle Catalogs <GitHub path="Lyxnx/android-gradle-catalogs" />

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.github.lyxnx.gradle/versions-common?style=flat-square)][mavenCentral]
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Lyxnx/android-gradle-catalogs?style=flat-square)][license]

Version catalogs and plugins to help reduce boilerplate in Android Gradle build scripts.

> :warning: The catalogs and accompanying plugins are meant for Kotlin DSL - they have not been tested with Groovy DSL

---

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Version Catalogs](#version-catalogs)
    - [Using](#using)
    - [Updating](#updating)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
    - [Customising Catalog Names](#customising-catalog-names)
    - [Compose Config](#compose-config)
    - [Room Config](#room-config)
        - [Configuring](#configuring)
    - [Hilt Config](#hilt-config)
        - [KSP](#ksp)
        - [KAPT](#kapt)
    - [Firebase Config](#firebase-config)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Version Catalogs

This repo contains some useful gradle version catalogs specific to Android:

| Name                                                   | Description                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Common](versions-common/libs.versions.toml)           | Regular Android artifacts, such as gradle plugins, and some of the most commonly used libraries |
| [AndroidX](versions-androidx/libs.versions.toml)       | AndroidX artifacts only                                                                         |
| [Compose](versions-compose/libs.versions.toml)         | Jetpack Compose artifacts (including the BOM) - useful with the compose config plugin below     |
| [Accompanist](versions-accompanist/libs.versions.toml) | Google Accompanist Compose artifacts (including the BOM)                                        |
| [Firebase](versions-firebase/libs.versions.toml)       | Firebase artifacts (including the BOM) - useful with the firebase config plugin below           |
| [External](versions-external/libs.versions.toml)       | Artifacts that aren't standard Android but are third party                                      |

### Using

Version catalogs are created within the `dependencyResolutionManagement` block of the `settings.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// <root>/settings.gradle.kts
dependencyResolutionManagement {
    versionCatalogs {
        create("CATALOGNAME") {
            from(/* Remote ID here */)
            // If a different version is required, it can be overridden:
            // For example, to override kotlin to 1.7.20
            version("kotlin", "1.7.20")
        }
    }
}
```

The gradle catalogs are published to the Maven Central repo, so only the standard `mavenCentral()` definition in the
repositories block is required

For the common catalog, it would be as follows, replacing `versions-common` with any of the required version names:

```kotlin
// <root>/settings.gradle.kts
dependencyResolutionManagement {
    versionCatalogs {
        create("common") {
            from("io.github.lyxnx.gradle:versions-common:<version>")
        }
    }
}
```

To use, reference it within a build file:

```kotlin
// Eg. app/build.gradle.kts
dependencies {
    // For com.google.code.gson:gson
    implementation(common.gson)
}
```

When using plugins, alias them within the root `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// <root>/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    alias(common.plugins.android.application) apply false
    alias(common.plugins.android.library) apply false
    alias(common.plugins.kotlin.android) apply false
}
```

The plugins can then be used within another module:

```kotlin
// Eg. app/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    id(common.plugins.android.application.get().pluginId)
    // OR
    id("com.android.application")
}
```

For more information on version catalogs, see
the [Gradle User Guide](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/platforms.html)

### Updating

The artifact versions within each catalog are updated automatically by
the [Renovate Bot](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate) as soon as they become available to
the [bleeding](https://github.com/Lyxnx/android-gradle-catalogs/tree/bleeding) branch

As such, no manual intervention is needed and any new artifacts or catalogs added will be automatically updated too

## Plugins

This repository comes with a few Gradle plugins for Android that use the catalogs

Ensure each required plugin is referenced in the root build file, but not applied:

```kotlin
// <root>/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.compose-config") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.room-config") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.hilt-config-ksp") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.hilt-config-kapt") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.firebase-config") version "<version>" apply false
}
```

As these plugins are Android specific, they require the `com.android.application`
or `com.android.library` plugin to be added to the module, depending on the module type.

### Customising Catalog Names

Since the following plugins apply other plugins and dependencies from the version catalogs, they need to know what each
catalog is called. This can however be customised from the `gradle.properties` file:

*Note that these are the default values, so if customisation is not required, these properties can be omitted*

```properties
catalogs.commonCatalogName=common
catalogs.androidxCatalogName=androidx
catalogs.composeCatalogName=compose
catalogs.firebaseCatalogName=firebase
```

### Compose Config

This plugin applies Jetpack Compose configuration options to the application or library module:

1. Enables the compose build feature
2. Sets the compose compiler version to the same as one in the `compose` catalog
3. Adds the compose BOM for versioning to the dependencies
4. Adds the compose runtime, ui, foundation, and tooling preview dependencies
5. Sets up the dependencies for UI tests

This plugin also adds the ability to generate compose compiler reports and compiler metrics by specifying a property in
a project's properties file, or on the command line for a singular task:

**For a singular task:**

For compiler reports:
`./gradlew :mymodule:assembleRelease -Pcatalogs.composeCompilerReports`

or for metrics:
`./gradlew :mymodule:assembleRelease -Pcatalogs.composeCompilerMetrics`

Alternatively, both can be combined to generate both types, although compiler reports are much more useful than the
metrics.

**For a module:**

To use in a singular module place the properties in each module's `gradle.properties` file or the global file to apply
to all modules.

In either way, the report/metric output directory can be configured using the `catalogs.composeCompilerReportsDir`
property.

Note that this property is relative to the current module. So placing it in the global properties file will
result in that path being relative to the current module in the build process.

If not given, it will default to `<current module>/build/compose-compiler-reports`

### Room Config

This plugin requires the [KSP](https://github.com/google/ksp) (ID `com.google.devtools.ksp`) plugin to be applied to the
module in addition to the standard Android plugins

This plugin applies RoomDB configuration options to the application or library module:

1. Applies the KSP plugin if needed
2. Sets the schema directory to the configured directory (see below)
3. Adds the Room runtime, runtime ktx, and compiler to dependencies from the `androidx` catalog
4. Adds the Room testing dependency

#### Configuring

This has an extension function for configuring the schema directory if the default does not wish to be used:

```kotlin
// Eg. app/build.gradle.kts
import io.github.lyxnx.gradle.android.catalogs.room.roomSchemaDir

roomSchemaDir(file("somewhere/schema_dir"))
// OR
roomSchemaDir("somewhere/schema_dir")
```

Note that this file is relative to the current build script.
The above would result in the schema directory being `app/somewhere/schema_dir` for the `:app` module

### Hilt Config

Starting from Dagger 2.48, KSP support was added and as such, this plugin comes in 2 forms: a KAPT version and a KSP
version.

Both versions require the [Dagger Hilt](https://dagger.dev/hilt/gradle-setup.html) (ID `dagger.hilt.android.plugin`)
plugin to be applied, and both versions will add the android hilt library from the `common` catalog to the dependencies

#### KSP

This is the recommended way to apply this plugin as KAPT is up to 2x slower than KSP, but for the time being does
require use of alpha/beta versions of Hilt

To use, make sure the [KSP](https://github.com/google/ksp) (ID `com.google.devtools.ksp`) plugin is applied, and then
apply this plugin.

#### KAPT

> :warning: This plugin should not be used unless KSP is not an option as KAPT is much slower and is currently in
> maintenance mode

To use, make sure the [KAPT](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/kapt.html) (ID `org.jetbrains.kotlin.kapt`) plugin is applied,
and then apply this plugin.

### Firebase Config

This plugin requires the [Google Services](https://developers.google.com/android/guides/google-services-plugin)
(ID `com.google.gms.google-services`) plugin to be applied to the module in addition to the standard Android plugins

This plugin is simple and only performs the following:

1. Adds the Google services plugin if needed
2. Adds the Firebase BOM to the dependencies from the `firebase` catalog

[mavenCentral]: https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.github.lyxnx.gradle/versions-common

[license]: LICENCE

Commit message:

Remove hilt KAPT version and update README to reflect the changes

README.md, after:

# Android Gradle Catalogs <GitHub path="Lyxnx/android-gradle-catalogs" />

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.github.lyxnx.gradle/versions-common?style=flat-square)][mavenCentral]
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Lyxnx/android-gradle-catalogs?style=flat-square)][license]

Version catalogs and plugins to help reduce boilerplate in Android Gradle build scripts.

> :warning: The catalogs and accompanying plugins are meant for Kotlin DSL - they have not been tested with Groovy DSL

---

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Version Catalogs](#version-catalogs)
  - [Using](#using)
  - [Updating](#updating)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
  - [Customising Catalog Names](#customising-catalog-names)
  - [Compose Config](#compose-config)
  - [Room Config](#room-config)
    - [Configuring](#configuring)
  - [Hilt Config](#hilt-config)
  - [Firebase Config](#firebase-config)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Version Catalogs

This repo contains some useful gradle version catalogs specific to Android:

| Name                                                   | Description                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Common](versions-common/libs.versions.toml)           | Regular Android artifacts, such as gradle plugins, and some of the most commonly used libraries |
| [AndroidX](versions-androidx/libs.versions.toml)       | AndroidX artifacts only                                                                         |
| [Compose](versions-compose/libs.versions.toml)         | Jetpack Compose artifacts (including the BOM) - useful with the compose config plugin below     |
| [Accompanist](versions-accompanist/libs.versions.toml) | Google Accompanist Compose artifacts (including the BOM)                                        |
| [Firebase](versions-firebase/libs.versions.toml)       | Firebase artifacts (including the BOM) - useful with the firebase config plugin below           |
| [External](versions-external/libs.versions.toml)       | Artifacts that aren't standard Android but are third party                                      |

### Using

Version catalogs are created within the `dependencyResolutionManagement` block of the `settings.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// <root>/settings.gradle.kts
dependencyResolutionManagement {
    versionCatalogs {
        create("CATALOGNAME") {
            from(/* Remote ID here */)
            // If a different version is required, it can be overridden:
            // For example, to override kotlin to 1.7.20
            version("kotlin", "1.7.20")
        }
    }
}
```

The gradle catalogs are published to the Maven Central repo, so only the standard `mavenCentral()` definition in the
repositories block is required

For the common catalog, it would be as follows, replacing `versions-common` with any of the required version names:

```kotlin
// <root>/settings.gradle.kts
dependencyResolutionManagement {
    versionCatalogs {
        create("common") {
            from("io.github.lyxnx.gradle:versions-common:<version>")
        }
    }
}
```

To use, reference it within a build file:

```kotlin
// Eg. app/build.gradle.kts
dependencies {
    // For com.google.code.gson:gson
    implementation(common.gson)
}
```

When using plugins, alias them within the root `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// <root>/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    alias(common.plugins.android.application) apply false
    alias(common.plugins.android.library) apply false
    alias(common.plugins.kotlin.android) apply false
}
```

The plugins can then be used within another module:

```kotlin
// Eg. app/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    id(common.plugins.android.application.get().pluginId)
    // OR
    id("com.android.application")
}
```

For more information on version catalogs, see
the [Gradle User Guide](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/platforms.html)

### Updating

The artifact versions within each catalog are updated automatically by
the [Renovate Bot](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate) as soon as they become available to
the [bleeding](https://github.com/Lyxnx/android-gradle-catalogs/tree/bleeding) branch

As such, no manual intervention is needed and any new artifacts or catalogs added will be automatically updated too

## Plugins

This repository comes with a few Gradle plugins for Android that use the catalogs

Ensure each required plugin is referenced in the root build file, but not applied:

```kotlin
// <root>/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.compose-config") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.room-config") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.hilt-config") version "<version>" apply false
    id("io.github.lyxnx.android.firebase-config") version "<version>" apply false
}
```

As these plugins are Android specific, they require the `com.android.application`
or `com.android.library` plugin to be added to the module, depending on the module type.

### Customising Catalog Names

Since the following plugins apply other plugins and dependencies from the version catalogs, they need to know what each
catalog is called. This can however be customised from the `gradle.properties` file:

*Note that these are the default values, so if customisation is not required, these properties can be omitted*

```properties
catalogs.commonCatalogName=common
catalogs.androidxCatalogName=androidx
catalogs.composeCatalogName=compose
catalogs.firebaseCatalogName=firebase
```

### Compose Config

This plugin applies Jetpack Compose configuration options to the application or library module:

1. Enables the compose build feature
2. Sets the compose compiler version to the same as one in the `compose` catalog
3. Adds the compose BOM for versioning to the dependencies
4. Adds the compose runtime, ui, foundation, and tooling preview dependencies
5. Sets up the dependencies for UI tests

This plugin also adds the ability to generate compose compiler reports and compiler metrics by specifying a property in
a project's properties file, or on the command line for a singular task:

**For a singular task:**

For compiler reports:
`./gradlew :mymodule:assembleRelease -Pcatalogs.composeCompilerReports`

or for metrics:
`./gradlew :mymodule:assembleRelease -Pcatalogs.composeCompilerMetrics`

Alternatively, both can be combined to generate both types, although compiler reports are much more useful than the
metrics.

**For a module:**

To use in a singular module place the properties in each module's `gradle.properties` file or the global file to apply
to all modules.

In either way, the report/metric output directory can be configured using the `catalogs.composeCompilerReportsDir`
property.

Note that this property is relative to the current module. So placing it in the global properties file will
result in that path being relative to the current module in the build process.

If not given, it will default to `<current module>/build/compose-compiler-reports`

### Room Config

This plugin requires the [KSP](https://github.com/google/ksp) (ID `com.google.devtools.ksp`) plugin to be applied to the
module in addition to the standard Android plugins

This plugin applies RoomDB configuration options to the application or library module:

1. Applies the KSP plugin if needed
2. Sets the schema directory to the configured directory (see below)
3. Adds the Room runtime, runtime ktx, and compiler to dependencies from the `androidx` catalog
4. Adds the Room testing dependency

#### Configuring

This has an extension function for configuring the schema directory if the default does not wish to be used:

```kotlin
// Eg. app/build.gradle.kts
import io.github.lyxnx.gradle.android.catalogs.room.roomSchemaDir

roomSchemaDir(file("somewhere/schema_dir"))
// OR
roomSchemaDir("somewhere/schema_dir")
```

Note that this file is relative to the current build script.
The above would result in the schema directory being `app/somewhere/schema_dir` for the `:app` module

### Hilt Config

KSP support was added to Dagger in version 2.48 (catalog 2023.09.09 onwards). This plugin used to come with a KAPT version, 
but has been removed due to KSP being more performant.

This plugin will require the [Dagger Hilt](https://dagger.dev/hilt/gradle-setup.html) (ID `dagger.hilt.android.plugin`)
plugin to be applied, and will add the android hilt library from the `common` catalog to the dependencies

To use, make sure the [KSP](https://github.com/google/ksp) (ID `com.google.devtools.ksp`) plugin is applied, and then
apply this plugin.

### Firebase Config

This plugin requires the [Google Services](https://developers.google.com/android/guides/google-services-plugin)
(ID `com.google.gms.google-services`) plugin to be applied to the module in addition to the standard Android plugins

This plugin is simple and only performs the following:

1. Adds the Google services plugin if needed
2. Adds the Firebase BOM to the dependencies from the `firebase` catalog

[mavenCentral]: https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.github.lyxnx.gradle/versions-common

[license]: LICENCE
